## Soil Moisture

This indicator shows the distribution of soil moisture acquired by the ESA Earth Explorer [Soil Moisture and Ocean Salinity (SMOS) mission](https://earth.esa.int/eogateway/missions/smos/description). The amount of water held in soil, is crucial for primary production but it is also intrinsically linked to our weather and climate. This is because soil moisture is a key variable controlling the exchange of water and heat energy between the land and the atmosphere. The variability in soil moisture is mainly governed by different rates of evaporation and precipitation. The importance of estimating soil moisture in the root zone is paramount for improving short- and medium-term meteorological modelling, hydrological modelling, the monitoring of plant growth, as well as contributing to the forecasting of hazardous events such as floods.

### Dataset description
-  Data is acquired by the sensor onboard SMOS, the [Microwave Imaging Radiometer with Aperture Synthesis (MIRAS)](https://earth.esa.int/eogateway/instruments/miras). MIRAS creates images of radiation emitted in the microwave L-band (1.4 GHz), by measuring soil moisture  observing variations in the natural microwave emission coming up off the surface of the planet.
-  The Level 2 Soil Moisture (SM) product comprises soil moisture measurements geo-located in an equal-area grid system ISEA 4H9.
-  The product contains one single swath-based sea surface salinity retrieved with and without Land-Sea contamination correction, SSS anomaly based on WOA-2009 referred to Land-Sea corrected sea surface salinity, brightness temperature at the top of the atmosphere and at the sea surface with their corresponding uncertainties.
-  The pixels are consolidated in a pole-to-pole product file (50 minutes of sensing time), with a maximum size of about 7MB (25MB uncompressed data) per half orbit (29 half orbits per day). 
