## Ocean Salinity

This indicator shows the distribution of salt in the global ocean acquired by the [Soil Moisture and Ocean Salinity (SMOS) mission](https://earth.esa.int/eogateway/missions/smos/description). Ocean currents are driven by temperature and salinity variations in the seawater and Understanding ocean salinity's annual and inter-annual variability are crucial in understanding the role of the ocean in the climate system. Ocean circulation is mainly driven by the water and heat flux through the atmosphere-ocean interface, but salinity is also fundamental in determining ocean density and hence thermohaline circulation. In the surface waters of the oceans, temperature and salinity alone control the density of seawater – the colder and saltier the water, the denser it is. As water evaporates from the ocean, the salinity increases and the surface layer becomes denser. In contrast, precipitation results in reduced density, and stratification of the ocean. The processes of seawater freezing and melting are also responsible for increasing and decreasing the salinity of the polar oceans, respectively. As sea-ice forms during winter, the freezing process extracts fresh water in the form of ice, leaving behind dense, cold, salty surface water.

### Dataset description
-  Data is acquired by the sensor onboard SMOS, the Microwave Imaging Radiometer with Aperture Synthesis (MIRAS). MRIAS creates images of radiation emitted in the microwave L-band (1.4 GHz), by measuring changes in the salinity of seawater by observing variations in the natural microwave emission coming up off the surface of the ocean.

If the density of the surface layer of seawater is increased sufficiently, the water column becomes gravitationally unstable and the denser water sinks. This process is a key to the temperature- and salinity-driven global ocean circulation. This conveyor-belt-like circulation is an important component of the Earth's heat engine, and crucial in regulating the weather and climate. Ocean salinity is also linked to the oceanic carbon cycle, as it plays a part in establishing the chemical equilibrium, which in turn regulates the CO2 uptake and release. Therefore the assimilation of sea surface salinity measurements into global ocean bio-geo-chemical models could improve estimates of the absorption of CO2 by the oceans.
